---
layout: post
title: Notes about STM32-Starter
tags: STM32
categories: [STM32 Notes]
---

{{ page.title }}
===========
Now we are going to talk about how to utilize the powerful Arm Cortex-M
architecture Microcontroller. Before we start, let’s take a glimpse of Cortex-M
family and it's easy to use HAL Library.

1.What is Cortex-M Microcontroller?    
The ARM Cortex-M is a group of 32-bit RISC ARM processor cores licensed by Arm
Holdings. They are intended for microcontroller use, and have been shipped in
tens of billions of devices. The cores consist of the Cortex-M0, Cortex-M0+,
Cortex-M1, Cortex-M3, Cortex-M4, Cortex-M7, Cortex-M23, Cortex-M33, Cortex-M35P.
The Cortex-M4 / M7 / M33 / M35P cores have an FPU silicon option, and when
included in the silicon these cores are known as "Cortex-Mx with FPU" or
"Cortex-MxF", where 'x' is the core number.
There are many authorized ARM Cortex Microcontroller manufacturer, among all of
these the ST electronics from Italy is famous and popular for beginners who want
to learn about Cortex-M series MCU. In the following articles we will run our code
mainly on a STM32L496RG-Discovery Evaluation Board. This EVB incorporates a
powerful Cortx-M4F processor, which has FPU can handle with Algorithms faster.

2.What is CMSIS?    
CMSIS was developed by ARM to allow microcontroller and software vendors to use a consistent software infrastructure
to develop software solutions for Cortex-M microcontrollers. As such, you can see
that many software products for Cortex-M microcontrollers are CMSIS-compliant.
Currently the Cortex-M microcontroller market comprises:
• More than 15 microcontroller vendors shipping Cortex-M microcontroller
products, with some other silicon vendors providing Cortex-M based FPGA and ASICs
• More than 10 toolchain vendors
• More than 30 embedded operating systems
• Additional Cortex-M middleware software providers for codecs, communication
protocol stacks, etc.

3.What is ST's HAL Library?    
HAL means Hardware Abstraction Layer, which provides Hardware abstractions.
The HAL driver layer provides a generic multi instance simple set of APIs (application programming
interfaces) to interact with the upper layer (application, libraries and stacks). It is composed of generic
and extension APIs. It is directly built around a generic architecture and allows the built-upon layers,
such as the middleware layer, to implement their functions without knowing in-depth how to use the
MCU. This structure improves the library code reusability and guarantees easy portability to other
devices.
The HAL drivers include a complete set of ready-to-use APIs which simplify the user application
implementation. As an example, the communication peripherals contain APIs to initialize and configure
the peripheral, to manage data transfers based on polling, to handle interrupts or DMA, and to manage
communication errors.
The HAL driver APIs are split into two categories: generic APIs which provide common and generic
functions for all the STM32 series and extension APIs which include specific and customized functions
for a given family or part number.
The HAL drivers are feature-oriented instead of IP-oriented. As an example, the timer APIs are split into
several categories following the functions offered by the IP: basic timer, capture, pulse width modulation
(PWM), and so on.    
The HAL driver layer implements run-time failure detection by checking the input values of all functions.
Such dynamic checking contributes to enhance the firmware robustness. Run-time detection is also
suitable for user application development and debugging.

Reference:    
1.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ARM_Cortex-M    
2.Mastering STM32 by Carmine Noviello    
3.The Definitive Guide to Arm® Cortex®-M3 and Cortex®-M4 Processors 3rd Edition    
4.www.st.com >>DM00105879.pdf    
